---
layout: post
title: Online Learning: Coursera, CodeSchool, Khanacademy
modified: 2014-08-25
category: articles
---

For the past few weeks I have been sending out cover letters and resumes, but I have had lots of spare time to read, code, lift weights and hit the beach. I remember reading that a personal blog should follow an 80/20 rule: only 20% of your blog should be about yourself, where the other 80% should be talking about ideas, products, and events youre not involved with. I figured I would write down my thoughts and experiences about online education tools Coursera, CodeSchool and KhanAcademy.

###Preface
Online education tools have many advantages over a brick-and-mortar school. It is obvious to see why: record and program the class once and you can service the needs of limitless student body. There are tangible benefits of the current education model of highschools and four-year university institutions. Schools are a great place to socialize, which is incredibly important. It is motivating to work and compete with your friends, resulting in high levels of achievement. 

###CodeSchool
I recently subscribed to codeschool to learn some skills. They are essentially a web developer tutorial site, and they do courses on javascript, Ruby (Rails), HTML, Node.js, and iOS. They cost 30 dollars a month, but you can try a trial month for 10 bucks (which I have done). So far, I have been doing their angular.js and backbone.js courses. A lot of the jobs I have been applying for are requesting those two, so I figured I should have some proficiency. The courses are very well done for their intended scope. There are short video lectures with slides, and then interactive coding examples in the browser. You can learn a fair amount in an afternoon. After taking a course, I feel like I have enough knowledge to understand the pros, cons and uses of a language. This is a powerful tool. If I wanted to pursue that language further, I the next step would be to read the documentation and build something from scratch with it. For what it is (a quick introduction to a technology), I think that this is a great tool.

I like their revenue model where they offer this cheap trial. I'm sure the company is doing well, but I don't think I will subscribe for very long. 

###Coursera
Coursera is a whole other type of online learning experience. Taking a coursera course is much more academic. This makes sense, as the courses offered are taught by university professors and have assignment deliverables in addition to the lectures. What is cool is that you can get a certificate after taking a class from reputable universities. I have been taking the scala/functional programming class and after I finish, I may brag to my friends that I have taken a class at the École Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne. 

###Khanacademy
Khanacademy is a series of free youtube lectures by a hardworking and bright man named Salman Khan. I believe he started the site when he was tutoring a young relative, posting math videos on youtube. He developed a following and started the website where he lectures content for classes from elementary school all the way up to university level classes. Personally, I used the lectures to learn university level calculus and linear algebra in my second year. It was an invaluable resource at the time. Recently they have added gamification elements. To learn more, check out Khan's  [ted talk](http://hackprinceton.com)

